okay how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is a video comparing what I
think are the best ultra books available
in early to mid 2016 now before I go any
further there are other good ultra books
out there some of them have even
reviewed on this channel but because of
other like pricing or general
availability or just not being good
enough I didn't include them in this
smaller group so the cutoff for this
kind of ultra book thing was 3 pounds if
you're above 3 pounds you didn't make
the team
anything under that was eligible so
first up we have the asus ux305 coming
in at 2.6 pounds comes in a couple
variants a Core M version and a more
powerful core i5 version which I have
here next we have the Razer Blade
stealth 2.75 pounds one of the more
interesting laptops that came out this
year because of the razor core that can
connect to it the Lenovo yoga 900 2.8
pounds it's the only two and one device
I have in this video it's also the
device with the most plastic and it's
built but that helps keep its weight
down next up is the Dell XPS 13 also 2.8
pounds it's a mixture of metal and
carbon fiber this is one of Dells best
products and years and then we have the
HP Envy 13 that's also 2.8 pounds but
it's a little bit thinner so these are
the windows-based ultrabooks for this
video and then we have a couple Apple
products the 12-inch MacBook coming in
at 2.0 3 pounds it's the lightest of the
bunch it's also the least powerful
rocking a core M I almost didn't want to
include this in this video but the right
user it can still be a pretty powerful
ultrabook and then lastly the aging
13-inch MacBook Air it's 2.9 pounds
we're expecting our refresh or like a
complete dump pretty soon but I got to
put this thing in here because it's like
the og ultrabook when this guy came out
it made the competition open up their
eyes and everyone bumped up their game
and basically spawned all of these
things
so what I'm gonna do is go over some
categories and kind of give you my top
pick from the bunch and then a runner-up
or two depending on the category the
best build quality has to go to the two
match books these things are incredibly
well built they're super durable I mean
people have had these things since 2008
and they're still kicking ass they're
rigid chassis super solid hinge and
these things are tanks the runner-up is
the Dell XPS 13 aluminum exterior carbon
fiber interior it's also very rigid now
keep in mind the rest of these
ultrabooks have very good build quality
I mean they wouldn't be in this video if
they didn't they're all-metal builds but
the MacBook and the XPS 13 have the best
build none of these devices have
upgradeable RAM they're all soldered on
because that's just apparently how you
keep these things thin but all the
windows-based machines have upgradable
em to storage some are harder to access
than others the HP Envy you need to
remove the adhesive feet to access the
screws the razor blade stealth has a
pretty delicate ribbon cable to deal
with but if you're careful they're all
upgradable and none of the MacBooks
however have upgradable storage they're
all a little slippery nothing too bad
the razor blade stealth shows
fingerprints pretty easily and not only
are they super visible but even if you
wipe it with a damp cloth the smudges to
a show now some people don't care about
this kind of stuff I do a little so I'm
pretty happy that D brand makes some
skins for the razor blade stealth they
also make them for the XPS 13 and the
MacBook so I'll put a link to them below
and I think they look really nice aside
from the low res MacBook Air all of
these have really great displays the
best-looking display is probably the
fork a razor blade panel and looks
awesome but keep in mind that you got to
power all those pixels and you got to
process all those pixels so on a small
Ultrabook like this unless you need 4k
I'd skip it my favorite is the infinity
display on the XPS 13 it gives you a
very immersive experience and it keeps
the footprint really small the downside
is that the webcam is in the bottom
quarter and you may not look your best
from that angle the HP Envy also has a
really good display and so does the
12-inch MacBook if you need a really
sharp looking webcam look if that's
something you care about the Razer Blade
stealth is probably the best looking of
the bunch the rest of the webcams are
kind of mediocre but I mean the majority
of users aren't too picky about these
okay the best sounding speakers 12-inch
MacBook incredibly good speakers
especially for its size
the runner-up would be the HP Envy those
projects up and they sound pretty good
the rest of the speakers are kind of
similar I like a B - I mean that's just
the nature of Ultrabook speakers they're
very thin so it's tough to fit a great
speaker and the best keyboard the
MacBook Air I think this is one of the
reasons why this device is still as
popular as it is I mean and impress
people on day one and then six years
later it's still a great keyboard for an
ultrabook and in my opinion it's better
than even the newer 12-inch MacBook
keyboard the rest of the keyboards are
pretty good the Razer Blade stealth has
Razer chroma which lets you customize
the keyboard with some lighting it's
very cool at first but it loses its
novelty quickly you kind of get
desensitized to it if I had to pick a
runner-up for the keyboard it would be
the yoga 900 it has a very nice feeling
keystroke great travel good spring back
but the layout is a little off or
seriously if you use any of these for a
while you'll get comfortable with them
the track pads on MacBooks are the best
they really are the gold standard for
laptop track pads the runner-up is the
updated XPS 13 that uses the windows 10
built-in driver it's much improved over
the previous generation drivers
everything else is pretty similar glass
track pads that aren't perfect one last
thing to note the first gen ux305 track
pads that I tested had some issues but
the new ones are improved and you don't
have that double clicking issue anymore
none of these ultrabooks are going to be
like hardcore performance machines I
wouldn't want to do regular 4k video
editing on it but they can play some
lightweight games most of them are
running i5 6200 use the razor blade
stealth has an i7 6500 Yi so it's got a
little bit more cache and a slightly
faster clock not a big difference in
performance though the Razer Blade
stealth will be able to connect to the
razor core for some more serious gaming
now in theory the coral beetles it
connects to other laptops that have a
Thunderbolt 3 connection but developing
the drivers and BIOS updates to make
that connection happen won't be really
quick or easy so if you need to get an
ultrabook that can connect immediately
when the Razer core comes out go with
the stealth the other thing is that the
XPS 13 has a new configuration that has
the iris 540 graphics chip it comes in a
gold color if you're into that
sort of thing but the iris 540 is
actually a very respectable integrated
chip I'd say it's on par with the Nvidia
940 m or view of that coming out soon
you should probably subscribe alright
let's talk about thermals and noise when
they're idling they're all really quiet
under load these ultrabooks are silent
these ones are pretty quiet and then
these ones are a little bit noisier
they're all running dual-core chips and
they're all properly cooled so none of
them get uncomfortably hot or anything
even the i7 chip on the razor is
properly cooled and this is all of them
under load value really depends on what
you use your Ultrabook for but I bet
choose one for like best overall value
it be the asus ux305 it goes for $750
for an i5 its wellspect and it's a great
overall device there is no backlit
keyboard though runner up surprisingly
the Razer Blade stealth which is crazy
because it's a razer product but for the
tech you get in there with the RGB
keyboard the great screen the i7 the
ability to connect it to a core for 999
dollars it's a really solid so even if
you have no intention of ever plugging
this thing up for gaming it's a really
well priced ultrabook you just got to
ignore that big bezel the top prize for
battery life goes to the 13-inch MacBook
Air it's an 11 or 12 hour battery
partially because it's a low res screen
but also MacBooks a really good
optimization to just slowly sip on
battery so the 12-inch MacBook also has
good battery life the runner-up is the
XPS 13 it'll last a full day of work
that's like 9 or 10 hours of battery
life the ux305 also has pretty good
battery life you'll get around 6 to 7
hours on that one as for my top pick
overall for like best ultrabook there's
no such thing as a perfect ultrabook but
the one that comes closest is the XPS 13
it's a very good performer looks good
the built well fantastic screen pretty
good inputs and it's like a good price
now the close second is the razor blade
stealth it almost got first place but
once you compare the display bezels I
really can't give a thick display bezel
a first place I was like best Ultrabook
simply because the infinity display
looks that much better but in terms of
value you're getting an i7 on the base
model so you're getting a slightly
better performer at the base price
the end of this video I hope you guys
liked it thumbs have you liked it subs
if you loved it it's been nice I'll see
you guys next time
oh if you want individual reviews of any
of the laptops in this video I've done
most of them all of them most of them
I'll link them below